# Predicting whether Kobe Bryant makes or misses a shot

## Intro
This project is a data analysis and machine learning exercise in order to attempt to predict whether Kobe Bryant will make a shot based off of different characteristics such as type of shot, area from floor, period, time left in the quarter, opponent, and more. The dataset was obtained from kaggle.com (https://www.kaggle.com/c/kobe-bryant-shot-selection/data), and contains statistics regarding every single shot Kobe Bryant attempted during his 20-year career. 

## Neural Network
After initial data processing and manipulation, I used the tensorflow and keras frameworks in order to build a neural network with two 64 neuron Dense and 2 Dropout layers, as well as a final fully connected Dense layer using the sigmoid activation function, that attempts to learn from the different features. The model results approached 68% accuracy on the training set, 65% accuracy on the validation set, and 65% accuracy on the test set. The very nature of this project was a simple learning exercise, and the model may not have been as predictive as wished because intuitively, the only factors that potentially impact whether Kobe makes a shot or not is the type of shot, area from floor, and potentially the opponent or year (given that his prime was in the mid-2000's). This could explain why the model immediately achieved a >60% accuracy but began to level out shortly after. After this, there is significant variability and randomness inherent in this dataset, which could very well explain the relatively low accuracy of the model. Much more important statistics that would significantly influence whether or not Kobe makes a shot would be opponent team record, opponent defensive rating, number of defenders guarding him during the shot, average distance of defender guarding him during the shot, and more.

## Support Vector Machine
Besides creating this neural network, I also implemented the support vector machine algorithm and created and SVC using scikit-learn's svm module. I trained and evaluated the data using the radial basis function as the kernel type and achieved an accuracy and precision of around 65%, and a significantly lower recall of around 46%. The polynomial kernel function with degree 4 (which had the best results among degrees 2-6) achieved similar results with an accuracy of around 64%, a precision of around 66%, and a recall of around 41%. Clearly, the neural network classification algorithm generally performs better than the SVM algorithm in this particular case.
